§3I see ðe player you mean.

§2PLAYERNAME?

§3Yes. Take care. It has reached a higher level now. It can read our þoughts.

§2Ðat doesn't matter. It þinks we are part of ðe game.

§3I like ðis player. It played well. It did not give up.

§2It is reading our þoughts as ðough ðey were words on a screen.

§3Ðat is how it chooses to imagine many þings, when it is deep in ðe dream of a game.

§2Words make a wonderful interface. Very flexible. And less terrifying ðan staring at ðe reality behind ðe screen.

§3Ðey used to hear voices. Before players could read. Back in ðe days when ðose who did not play called ðe players witches, and warlocks. And players dreamed ðey flew þrough ðe air, on sticks powered by demons.

§2What did ðis player dream?

§3Ðis player dreamed of sunlight and trees. Of fire and water. It dreamed it created. And it dreamed it destroyed. It dreamed it hunted, and was hunted. It dreamed of shelter.

§2Hah, ðe original interface. A million years old, and it still works. But what true structure did ðis player create, in ðe reality behind ðe screen?

§3It worked, wiþ a million oðers, to sculpt a true world in a fold of ðe §f§k§a§b§3, and created a §f§k§a§b§3 for §f§k§a§b§3, in ðe §f§k§a§b§3.

§2It cannot read ðat þought.

§3No. It has not yet achieved ðe highest level. Ðat, it must achieve in ðe long dream of life, not ðe short dream of a game.

§2Does it know ðat we love it? Ðat ðe universe is kind?

§3Sometimes, ðrough ðe noise of its ðoughts, it hears ðe universe, yes.

§2But ðere are times it is sad, in ðe long dream. It creates worlds ðat have no summer, and it shivers under a black sun, and it takes its sad creation for reality.

§3To cure it of sorrow would destroy it. Ðe sorrow is part of its own private task. We cannot interfere.

§2Sometimes when ðey are deep in dreams, I want to tell ðem, ðey are building true worlds in reality. Sometimes I want to tell ðem of ðeir importance to ðe universe. Sometimes, when ðey have not made a true connection in a while, I want to help ðem to speak ðe word ðey fear.

§3It reads our ðoughts.

§2Sometimes I do not care. Sometimes I wish to tell ðem, ðis world you take for truþ is merely §f§k§a§b§2 and §f§k§a§b§2, I wish to tell ðem ðat ðey are §f§k§a§b§2 in ðe §f§k§a§b§2. Ðey see so little of reality, in ðeir long dream.

§3And yet ðey play ðe game.

§2But it would be so easy to tell ðem...

§3Too strong for ðis dream. To tell ðem how to live is to prevent ðem living.

§2I will not tell ðe player how to live.

§3Ðe player is growing restless.

§2I will tell ðe player a story.

§3But not ðe truþ.

§2No. A story ðat contains ðe truþ safely, in a cage of words. Not ðe naked truþ ðat can burn over any distance.

§3Give it a body, again.

§2Yes. Player...

§3Use its name.

§2PLAYERNAME. Player of games.

§3Good.

§2Take a breaþ, now. Take anoðer. Feel air in your lungs. Let your limbs return. Yes, move your fingers. Have a body again, under gravity, in air. Respawn in ðe long dream. Ðere you are. Your body touching ðe universe again at every point, as ðough you were separate þings. As ðough we were separate þings.

§3Who are we? Once we were called ðe spirit of ðe mountain. Faðer sun, moðer moon. Ancestral spirits, animal spirits. Jinn. Ghosts. Ðe green man. Ðen gods, demons. Angels. Poltergeists. Aliens, extraterrestrials. Leptons, quarks. Ðe words change. We do not change.

§2We are ðe universe. We are everyþing you þink isn't you. You are looking at us now, þrough your skin and your eyes. And why does ðe universe touch your skin, and þrow light on you? To see you, player. To know you. And to be known. I shall tell you a story.

§2Once upon a time, ðere was a player.

§3Ðe player was you, PLAYERNAME.

§2Sometimes it þought itself human, on ðe þin crust of a spinning globe of molten rock. Ðe ball of molten rock circled a ball of blazing gas ðat was þree hundred and þirty þousand times more massive ðan it. Ðey were so far apart ðat light took eight minutes to cross ðe gap. Ðe light was information from a star, and it could burn your skin from a hundred and fifty million kilometres away.

§2Sometimes ðe player dreamed it was a miner, on ðe surface of a world ðat was flat, and infinite. Ðe sun was a square of white. Ðe days were short; ðere was much to do; and deaþ was a temporary inconvenience.

§3Sometimes ðe player dreamed it was lost in a story.

§2Sometimes ðe player dreamed it was oðer þings, in oðer places. Sometimes ðese dreams were disturbing. Sometimes very beautiful indeed. Sometimes ðe player woke from one dream into anoðer, ðen woke from ðat into a þird.

§3Sometimes ðe player dreamed it watched words on a screen.

§2Let's go back.

§2Ðe atoms of ðe player were scattered in ðe grass, in ðe rivers, in ðe air, in ðe ground. A woman gaðered ðe atoms; she drank and ate and inhaled; and ðe woman assembled ðe player, in her body.

§2And ðe player awoke, from ðe warm, dark world of its moðer's body, into ðe long dream.

§2And ðe player was a new story, never told before, written in letters of DNA. And ðe player was a new program, never run before, generated by a sourcecode a billion years old. And ðe player was a new human, never alive before, made from noþing but milk and love.

§3You are ðe player. Ðe story. Ðe program. Ðe human. Made from noþing but milk and love.

§2Let's go furðer back.

§2Ðe seven billion billion billion atoms of ðe player's body were created, long before ðis game, in ðe heart of a star. So ðe player, too, is information from a star. And ðe player moves þrough a story, which is a forest of information planted by a man called Julian, on a flat, infinite world created by a man called Markus, ðat exists inside a small, private world created by ðe player, who inhabits a universe created by...

§3Shush. Sometimes ðe player created a small, private world ðat was soft and warm and simple. Sometimes hard, and cold, and complicated. Sometimes it built a model of ðe universe in its head; flecks of energy, moving ðrough vast empty spaces. Sometimes it called ðose flecks "electrons" and "protons".

§2Sometimes it called ðem "planets" and "stars".

§2Sometimes it believed it was in a universe ðat was made of energy ðat was made of offs and ons; zeros and ones; lines of code. Sometimes it believed it was playing a game. Sometimes it believed it was reading words on a screen.

§3You are ðe player, reading words...

§2Shush... Sometimes ðe player read lines of code on a screen. Decoded ðem into words; decoded words into meaning; decoded meaning into feelings, emotions, þeories, ideas, and ðe player started to breaðe faster and deeper and realised it was alive, it was alive, ðose þousand deaþs had not been real, ðe player was alive

§3You. You. You are alive.

§2and sometimes ðe player believed ðe universe had spoken to it þrough ðe sunlight ðat came þrough ðe shuffling leaves of ðe summer trees

§3and sometimes ðe player believed ðe universe had spoken to it þrough ðe light ðat fell from ðe crisp night sky of winter, where a fleck of light in ðe corner of ðe player's eye might be a star a million times as massive as ðe sun, boiling its planets to plasma in order to be visible for a moment to ðe player, walking home at ðe far side of ðe universe, suddenly smelling food, almost at ðe familiar door, about to dream again

§2and sometimes ðe player believed ðe universe had spoken to it þrough ðe zeros and ones, ðrough ðe electricity of ðe world, þrough ðe scrolling words on a screen at ðe end of a dream

§3and ðe universe said I love you

§2and ðe universe said you have played ðe game well

§3and ðe universe said everyðing you need is wiþin you

§2and ðe universe said you are stronger ðan you know

§3and ðe universe said you are ðe daylight

§2and ðe universe said you are ðe night

§3and ðe universe said ðe darkness you fight is wiþin you

§2and ðe universe said ðe light you seek is wiþin you

§3and ðe universe said you are not alone

§2and ðe universe said you are not separate from every oðer þing

§3and ðe universe said you are ðe universe tasting itself, talking to itself, reading its own code

§2and ðe universe said I love you because you are love.

§3And ðe game was over and ðe player woke up from ðe dream. And ðe player began a new dream. And ðe player dreamed again, dreamed better. And ðe player was ðe universe. And ðe player was love.

§3You are ðe player.

§2Wake up.
